So there are questions worth asking as well.
What kind of lighting setup will you specifically need.
More specifically how many lights will you need and what kind of special equipment will you'll need
to arrange and use red lights.
Now obviously we need lights themselves and you'll need to choose the types.
The other thing to remember is that very often when you shoot in a room or office or some other place
that has its own lights you probably have to shut off all the lights and use production lights instead.
So any lights in the ceiling lamps or desk lights or whatever else you shut all those often and turn
on your actual video lights on.
The other thing to keep in mind are lights as well.
What type of video are you trying to shoot.
Thirty two a marketing video with one person sitting in front of a blank background looking at the camera
talking about stuff explaining things kind of you know like an explainer video.
You'll need a way to set up that background and light it as well as lighting your speaker to make sure
they look good.
Now on the other hand you might do a video with one person talking but they're talking to someone else
off camera like in an interview.
So again they need to be lit nicely but instead of being in front of a blank background they'll probably
be sitting or standing somewhere in an office or some other location.
Then of course you might do a video with two people talking to each other perhaps in an interview format
maybe like a conversation.
Both people could be sitting in chairs or at a desk or in standing.
And they both need to be lit as well as you know any other objects or decoration of the scene.
So with that in mind you still need to know what type of video you want to create the format you choose
will pretty much dictate the listening equipment you're going to need.
Obviously keep in mind if you're doing any shooting with one person while you only need a certain amount
of light shooting with five people and you might need more lights.
Now here's how it generally works with lighting.
And I'm going to condense into 30 45 seconds what some people study for over two years at film school.
When you're writing a subject you're generally supposed to have three different types of light.
You have the key light the fill light and then essentially with like the backlight or the hair light.
So this is the standard way that people film generally you're going to have a key light which is the
main light that's going to fill 80 percent of your subject.
And that's generally going to be of him staring at you right now.
It's going to be 45 degrees away kind of this direction it should be hitting me like this and filling
my body to about this point.
Then you have the fill light which will be exactly to my left.
Right.
So if I'm looking at a clock and B it's never good with clocks.
Nine o'clock and that's going to fill the rest of my body.
And then the third light which kind of optional.
But this is again the standard the baseline ever uses is the hair light which is behind you hitting
your head.
What it does is it creates a nice outliner on your head and it creates separation between you and the
background.
Now if just one person you could shoot it like that if you're doing an interview.
You could also shoot it like that.
But here is my suggestion as someone who's been in the trenches doing this for way too long.
Skip all that noise the key the fill in the hairline.
It's completely unnecessary for marketing videos.
We're making marketing videos means we don't need a lot of control over you know the drama TISM of the
lighting on our face.
We don't need to do a lot of crazy different things.
So instead do what's called flatlining.
Now is again.
See this unamiable throw it up on the screen about how my lighting works.
But it is literally flat.
So I have one light over here and one light over here they're equal distance from each other equal distance
from my face one way to me like this and one Lights me like this.
It's flat out Avinza flat lighting as well.
It gets really good coverage of your face but that's it.
There's nothing special going on.
It's entire focus is on lengthening you up as much as possible which in a marketing video is what we
want.
We want a clean look.
We want we don't want them to be distracted by shadows on your face or any type of stylistic kind of
lighting.
If you are commercials you'll notice that they're very rarely lit with anything other than flat lining.
They're just lit up like you just took that person and turned up the brightness on them so seriously
don't get in the weeds about all the different angles you can use with lighting it is way overwhelming
if you're just trying to do a simple shot from marketing.
Just use flatlining.
Any idiot can set it up.
Nobody's shooting with multiple people and you need to light them both at the same time.
If there's two people you kind of do the same thing or it's a set of lights for one person a set of
lights for another you're kind of on a budget.
Well you can do flat again you can do flat where say two people are sitting right next to each other
and like a talk show kind of format and then you'll just have one on this direction on the other.
Only difference there as you might want a larger one that gives off more light to cover both of them
equally.
The other thing you might see in marketing videos is called background lighting.
Now I don't actually use background running in this shop but in some other ones you can definitely see
it that generally does it just brightens up whatever is behind you.
Beggaring learning just helps to make the scene brighter because it's really hard to brighten up scenes
when you're editing it after you've filmed it.
It's way way better just to do it with lights brighter scenes are happier scenes they're less distracting
and that's why they're so popular with marketing videos.
Now how exactly do you position lights.
Well.
Pretty simple.
You just have things called light stands.
Right and they can go anywhere from eight dollars to God.
There's things called century stands which are kind of an industry standard in large productions which
cost them like 200 dollars each.
If you're shooting with Ltd's you can get away with really cheap small light stands.
And if you're using small lights you can get away with the cheapo ones.
My general sweet spot is just to shoot for kind of the middle of the road.
Don't spend $200 on a light stand don't spend nine try to get the ones like $30 because they'll actually
last.
But they're also hold up larger lights now perhaps light stands.
Well you might use clamps and clamps can help you if you need to put lights on like a doorway or above
someone in a very specific setting where let's say it's not a perfectly controlled environment.
You're filming in a separate scene separate location and you can just fit all the lights or something
like that.
Ultimately whatever position you use with your lighting or it's flat or it's the traditional key fill
hair light or if you have lots of lights lots of background lights hair lights accessory lights all
these different things you can spend absolutely days researching this stuff.
One of the things that really is going to matter is a concept in lighting.
Now before I talked about how we have sharp shadows and soft shadows while what creates sharp shadows
and what creates soft shadows.
Well it has to do with the light source now larger light sources generally make softer shadows smaller
for whatever reason make harsher shadows.
So oftentimes what you'll find is that people try to soften up the light by making it larger.
That's why we have things called soft boxes.
It was again a soft box.
They look pretty ridiculous.
There are these things you stick on front of your lights that expand the range of the light so it makes
the light source larger you ever bored want to see what I mean.
Take your iPhone and use the light and then play it on yourself.
It's such a small light source no matter where you shine it always has to be in the dark.
You'll notice that it's it's going to be very harsh the lines are to go black to lit.
And you won't even notice the transition.
So you know don't be surprised when you see soft boxes.
And in general I think soft boxes are a great way to use cheaper lights but then improve the quality
by adding a $30 softball so that kind of funny if you see photographers sometimes they'll use octo boxes
which are soft boxes that are shaped like an octagon and they'll have them almost comically large I've
seen soft boxes that are 15 feet tall because again larger lightsource softer light.
Right.
It is true and that's how their photos gets.
Oh incredibly high quality.
But there is obviously a limit right.
So let's start a little bit about accessory lights.
Right.
So the main lights we have are going to you know we're going to pick our daylight's or our tongue stands
or we'll go with Ltds.
Chains are only going to pick two lights because we can just use flat lining because that's the Evans
special.
Let's talk a little bit of accessory lights.
So there's another type of light you might consider using and this is really popular on YouTube and
it's called a ring light.
Now this is a circular shaped light where you put a camera in the middle of it and you have your speaker
face the camera when you turn the light on.
Essentially what it does is it black light onto the speaker's face which eliminates any pockets or shadows
on their face so it can create a really clear picture.
The cons of using something like this though is that if you're staring at a camera and there's a light
around it it's kind of like staring directly into the sun.
It's unbelievably taxing on your eyes doing the thing.
I consider it a con but some people think of it as a pro it is kind of weird is it creates a weird effect
in your pupils So if you're filming too close to someone you see this on the with the video as you can
see a ring inside of their eyes.
Now a lot of YouTube YouTube's actually do this because they think it's cool.
So next time you watch any youtube or like like make up YouTube is staring really close to the screen.
And look at their pupils you'll usually see a ring around it.
Those usually will come in early diversions but there's also florescence that just they're just two
blades of the accessory like would be just using a backlight.
Right so a lot of times you can use really small lights to put them behind you to hit your back.
And what that does is it creates separation between you and the background.
Now personally I know I haven't noticed a huge difference with these.
Maybe I just I'm not using it correctly or whatever reason.
I've seen people compared the before and the after.
I honestly just don't think it's worth the effort.
If you're going all out on production Why not.
It really does make your body kind of pop out of the image.
However if you're not sure you're some budget conscious I think it's something to skip that sort of
light you might run into is for background learning or talking before UV light the background makes
it brighter brighter is generally better for marketing for clarity for being less distracting and makes
it a lot easier after you shoot for editing.
In that case you'll generally have are what are called pronounced for the longest time Fresno lights
but I believe I actually pronounce for Nell.
So for now lights are kind of like floodlights in the sense that there are lights with a small light
source.
And what they do is they hit a lens and it's of color for now lens and that lens basically shoots the
light in all different directions.
So it ends up happening is you have this like that.
It's kind of like a spotlight but in your video production so what you can do is you can just aim it
directly at the background sometimes you can put it behind the person and hit it on the background.
And that's a cheap easy way of just lining up a large area.
He had to do that with normal lights while I mean you have to have more lights and they're more expensive.
Any other things you might think about with regards to lighting.
Well you might think of a background.
And it's not really related to lighting but it's simply something to consider.
I don't know if you guys have watched any of the wisteria videos on their website but they've kind of
mastered that like talking head explainer video with the background format.
So you know if you watch any of those and all it's all the same format and you'll see in the back there's
kind of a gradient light.
So the top of the frame will be like whatever the color the background is and then it gets lighter and
you get closer to their head.
We actually cover this more in detail later in the section so you'll see what I mean.
It's actually something that a lot of YouTube instructors have copied for that look.
It's actually pretty easy.
You just buy what's called seamless paper.
Well that basically means is that it's paper that has no seams on it it's just one long roll of the
big paper and usually you just tack that behind yourself and that's a great way of getting what color
whatever color you want on the wall.
That's a great way of not distracting the person watching the camera.
Focus on the talent or the person speaking at the camera and in general.
It's a very clean look.
Or is that kind of wraps up our crash course on lighting.
Is there more I could say oh my god yes there is.
I could you could go on for hours and hours hours their entire 40 hour course is dedicated just to lighting.
This is the crash course right.
All you need to understand is that we have different color temperatures.
Does it matter color temperature you use.
Just don't mix them.
You have you and you have tungsten Thomsons come from incandescent bulbs.
They're kind of yellowish orange warmer.
Easier on the eyes.
Cheaper but they will cook your room and it gets kind of uncomfortable for long periods of time.
Daylight bulbs in their hand are bright white things you see in like hospitals or warehouses things
where you need to have a lot of visual clarity.
Daylight's are not as hot and they're not as cheap.
Daylight's typically come from fluorescent bulbs or in some cases it doesn't matter.
It's called CFL.
That they're overloading or Ali Deis Ltds or super portable super convenient.
They can be battery powered.
They're really small.
However they're extremely expensive and the cheap ones are worse than just using your own light bulbs
in the ceiling.
Past that point if you want to look like you were to film school and use what's called three point lighting
three point lighting is when you put one.
It's called the key light which is generally 45 degrees if you're looking forward it's 45 degrees to
your right or left and then use a fill light which is always going to be 90 degrees in the opposite
direction.
And then use a hair or a light or a backlight usually on the ground pointing up or up in the air pointing
down on the back of your subject.
Now I think that's a bunch of B.S. just use flat lighting which is we're used to lights and you put
them equal distance away from you and equal distance from themselves.
So if you're the tip of a triangle This is the base.
This is what I use and this is what really really works for marketing videos.
It's simple and it illuminates you really cleanly pass it.
There's a lot of accessories you can go for but they're not entirely necessary.
You can use those headlights you can use ring lights which are just go over your lens and focus on your
face and you can use background lighting.
Usually things like for Nelle lights are the most cost effective or just general what's being used for
now lights can come in tungsten or daylight or Ltd's even.
Ok now that is the basic essentials you need to know if you were to go out and put together some video
equipment and try to shoot your own videos.
Hopefully that's enough you guys started if you have any questions always just post in the slack and
optionally If that doesn't work post in the Q&A although it takes longer to see those questions and
then I can just help you out because there's an immense amount of detail to this.
The last thing I'll say is you might think to yourself hey this lighting thing is a lot of work a lot
of effort too expensive.
I don't want to do it.
A lot of people might think hey I can just fix this after I film it.
Kind of like Instagram right.
Take a crappy photo and then use a filter to make it look better.
One thing I can tell you right now is don't do that.
It's really really hard to fix things after the fact and even if you do fix them after the fact I'll
never look as good.
And you know this is something we say etches.
What's the best way of fixing something it's to reshoot not anything else redo it the correct way you
can fix something as an editing but that should be your absolute last resort.
Please please please do not fall into that trap.
All right guys I will see you in the next lecture.